+++
date = '2026-04-21T08:00:00Z'
draft = false
title = 'Bidding'
+++

It is my first post and I hope I'll be able to publish stuff regularly. I am treating it as my personal journal, something that I would be able to look at at some time later and remember what was I up to. I also want to use it to develop my writing skills, which I always thought were not too shabby (altough last time I had to write stuff like that was in high school and in Polish). Additionally I am pretty sure there are several scientifically proven reasons why one should have a personal journal but I can't reallt be asked to quote anything here now. I guess I'll see how this blog/journal/diary will shape up, whether I'll write about stuff I did over the week at work, or besides the work, or if I learnt something cool, or if I did nothing at all. I need to be careful not to share to much information that I shouldn't (work stuff).

It has been 2 weeks now (I think) since I actually set the blog up, and probably couple years since I've been thinging of setting one up. I have never enjoyed posting stuff on instagram, facebook, linked in etc... Ever since I was about 14 I was pushed into posting online stuff, mostly sports stuff. It was for other people to see that I do stuff, however I always thought that relevant people always knew what I was up to. Or that if someone knows their shit they would be able to reckognise my (possibly) hard work and appreciate it. I think ever since I was much younger I instinctively knew just how fake internet is. That is why a while ago I decided to stop using instagram, which imo is the worst of them all... People only post great stuff from their life, only the cool stuff they do, none of the real world drama or problems. Then one starts to think that their messed up life is so much worse than everyone else's around them. I genuinly started to feel better after I stopped looking at other people's fake lives online. If there is someone I want to keep in touch with, I do regardless.

 At work recently it has been mostly PR reviews on the Link Budget work and bidding... I have not written any bids before, it seems really difficult and exhausting. It requires a lot of a priori knowledge on the subject (which for this pariticular bid, I don't have at all), ideas on how to solve the issue (which with no a priori knowledge on the topic is even more difficult!) and a healthy balance between waffling and actual content that is worth reading. Nevertheless, I think it is good I am (kind of) forced to do something else. Motivating myself to work has been particularly difficult, I think the constant travel and bad weather, in combination with being most of the time indoors are just tiring me out.

Going back to the bid, the amount of cool things that can be done with SLR is remarkable... I have been learning and reading about how SLR data can be used to determine attiutde of an object. It is really clever how its done, so far I read about two main ways of doing so: one is with a singular CCR. By knowing the position of the CCR wrt to the CoM of the satellite and observing periodicity in the data one is able to deduce the spin of the satellite, but my understanding is that this method is quite limited and cannot determine more complicated tumbling. Additionally it requires multiple rotations of the satellite. The other method is to distinguish between multiple peaks from more than one retroreflectors mounted on the satellite. Just that is ridicolous in itself. The timing precision required for that is crazy: each picosecond of uncertainty is equal to about 1.5mm. And the method with determining attiude by analyzing multiple retros position wrt to each other and known CoM requires, literally mm level precision. So seeing that precision in full rate data (I think it is that) just blows my mind. 

I am currently reading Hyperion, which is an interesting change from, pretty much, any other book I have read before. It is so unique in the setting of the world. Usually the future is portrayed as very high tech, robotics and shit, but well not here. Here a religous setting is portrayed, in a dark and captivating way. Honestly I cannot wait every single night before I go to bed to read a bit more. I am really glad I can still focus a little and spend some time every day reading a book. And I am really happy, that I genuienly like it..